King’s College London
Traffic Simulator
Group Project

Team Diversity

Members:
Balasz Kiss
Eddy Mukasa
Gabb Visessmit
Pongsakorn N. Riyamongkol
Snorri Hannesson

February 4, 2015

1
1.1

About the project
Background

In a past of decade, population is seemed to be continuous increased which may not be
predictable. The traﬃc management is becoming a serious problem a number of cities
around the world due to the crowned people in these areas. The capital city especially
in London, Bangkok, and New York has faced with the traﬃc congestion challenge. This
is because the road is limit but the demand of roads user is high. Therefore, the traﬃc
management is the method to relieve this problem by using the Traﬃc Simulator.
Traﬃc Simulator project is a part of coursework in Group Project (7CCSMGPR)
of Kings College London. This course is to provide the development in the software
product: planning, designing, implementing, and reporting. Hence, the Traﬃc Simulator
matches to the aim of Group Project Course and helps traﬃc management to resolve
traﬃc challenge.

1.2

Objectives
- Develop a traﬃc simulator program.
- To help the traﬃc management method.
- To achieve the aim of Group Project (7CCSMGPR) course.

1.3

Objectives
- There are two lanes (left and right) in each road. The left lane is normal, but the
right lane is for driver changing lanes or emergency.
- There has only one-way direction of the vehicle.
- This programme has only car and bus.
- This programme is designed for driver behaviour which can only be caution, reckless, and normal.
- The scale of the map is ???

1.4

Outline

Description : The Traﬃc Simulator is the programme that provides some traﬃc management policies to relief traﬃc congestion issues. The policy that forced to the
system is ﬁxed time policy and congestion control policy. This traﬃc simulator
programme has only car and bus which each vehicle driver behavior can be caution, reckless, and normal. Moreover, the emergency strategy is used in the system
to make the system is reliable. Therefore, the Traﬃc Simulator will be the one
method of the traﬃc management policy to reduce the traﬃc congestion in the
main road.
1

General Concept :
1. Vehicle Types: There are two types of vehiclescar and bus. This programme
is assumed that car go faster and has higher acceleration than bus. The shape
and size of the bus is bigger than car, so it takes more space in the road.
2. Drivers Behaviours: There are three types of drivers behaviour– caution, reckless, and normal. In the simulator, it is judged the behaviour of driver by
using speed and acceleration, as illustrated in the table below. Moreover, the
driving behaviour of abnormal people may not be the normal people.
Type
Cautious
Normal
Reckless

Car (X pixels)
Acceleration: Y
Top Speed: X
Acceleration: Y + 10
Top Speed: X + 20
Acceleration: Y + 20
Top Speed: X + 40

Bus (2X pixels)
Acceleration: Y - 10
Top Speed: X - 20
Acceleration: Y
Top Speed: X
Acceleration: Y + 10
Top Speed: X + 20

3. Emergency Strategy: The emergency policy in the simulator is to prioritise
ambulances at traﬃc lights and on the road. When the ambulance is generated, all vehicles on the same road and area will avoid the ambulance. In
addition, another vehicle in that area will stop and give the ambulance pass
the intersection ﬁst.
4. Traﬃc Management Policy: There are two diﬀerent traﬃc management policiesFixed Time and Congestion Control policy.
- Fixed Time Policy is the policy to set the peak and oﬀ-peak time during
a day. In a peak time period, the green light on the direction to the
business centre area or working area will be 2X seconds before changing
to red light. And oﬀ-peak time period, it will be set the green light time
to X seconds before changing.
- Congestion Control Policy is the policy that automatically changes the
duration of the green light due to the congestion of the traﬃc. The
green light time will be longer than other directions, when the congestion
occurred.
The two diﬀerent will be compared by the average time in each vehicle on
the system. In each vehicle will have a timer that starts when it enters
the system and gets written to a log when the vehicle exists the system.
The average time is calculated during this period (vehicle in/out to/from
system). The both policies either ﬁxed time or congestion control, which
has lower average time in each vehicle, is better than another.

1.5

Methods and Strategies

• Software Development: developed by JAVA programming language.
2

• Source Code: done by GitHub.
• Documentation: done by GitHub and created by LaTeX.
• Management: Trello.
• Assessment: graded by Burgers Algorithm and Peer Assessment

1.6

Schedule

Progress
and
Period
wk01
wk02
wk03
wk04
wk05
wk06
wk07
wk08
wk09
wk10

1.7

Requirement
and Analysis

Design and
Code

Integration
and
Implementation

Testing

Evaluation

Initial report
Presentation

Initial report
Presentation

Expectation of Project Outcome
- Traﬃc Simulator is developed and implemented in the real situation.
- Traﬃc Simulator is the one of the method to help the traﬃc management policy.
- Traﬃc Simulator is achieved in any objectives of Group Project (7CCSGPR) programme.

2
2.1

About us
Project management

The Agile Methodology is used for this project.

2.2

Roles

Balazs Kiss: Lead programmer
Eddy Mukasa: Architect

3

Gabb Visessmit: Graphical designer
Pongsakorn N. Riyamongkol: Project Manager
Snorri Hannesson: Tester and Coordinator

2.3

Collaboration

Facebook: used facebook group, as a communication channel.
GitHub: used for collecting all source code and documentation.
Trello: used for management and follow up any tasks.
Meeting: set up a meeting in on Thursday 10:00 every week during the project period.

2.4

Peer Assessment and Self Assessment

This involves members of our group to evaluate other members regarding the performance of their tasks. In addition, self-assessment is used to grade yourself in term of
duties and accomplishment tasks. Peer and Self Assessment can be used for both formative and summative purposes. There are some techniques about peer and self assessment,
as followed:
- Assessment Form
- Noticed from GitHub and Trello.

2.5

Conflicts

If we have conﬂicts during this project, we also use simply method to resolve it.
I. Realise conﬂict
II. Handle conﬂict sooner rather than later.
III. Find the solution together
IV. Apologise
V. Appreciate

4

